# Error Handling

## Errors

### register

```php
<?php
set_error_handler($callback, $errorType);
```

### unregister

```php
<?php
set_error_handler($callback, null);
```

### $callback

```php
<?php

/**
 *
 * @param string $level Error level
 * @param string $message Error message
 * @param string $file Error file
 * @param int $line Error line
 * @param array $context
 */
function callback($level, message, $file, $line, $context){
    // handling the error
}
```

### trigger an error

```php
<?php
trigger_error(string $msg[, int $error_type]);
```


## Exceptions


## Appendix

### Error Types



Value   | Constant | Description Note
1   | E_ERROR |(integer)   Fatal run-time errors. These indicate errors that can not be recovered from, such as a memory allocation problem. Execution of the script is halted.    

2   E_WARNING (integer) Run-time warnings (non-fatal errors). Execution of the script is not halted.    

4   E_PARSE (integer)   Compile-time parse errors. Parse errors should only be generated by the parser. 

8   E_NOTICE (integer)  Run-time notices. Indicate that the script encountered something that could indicate an error, but could also happen in the normal course of running a script.  

16  E_CORE_ERROR (integer)  Fatal errors that occur during PHP's initial startup. This is like an E_ERROR, except it is generated by the core of PHP.   since PHP 4
32  E_CORE_WARNING (integer)    Warnings (non-fatal errors) that occur during PHP's initial startup. This is like an E_WARNING, except it is generated by the core of PHP.  since PHP 4
64  E_COMPILE_ERROR (integer)   Fatal compile-time errors. This is like an E_ERROR, except it is generated by the Zend Scripting Engine.    since PHP 4
128 E_COMPILE_WARNING (integer) Compile-time warnings (non-fatal errors). This is like an E_WARNING, except it is generated by the Zend Scripting Engine.   since PHP 4
256 E_USER_ERROR (integer)  User-generated error message. This is like an E_ERROR, except it is generated in PHP code by using the PHP function trigger_error().    since PHP 4
512 E_USER_WARNING (integer)    User-generated warning message. This is like an E_WARNING, except it is generated in PHP code by using the PHP function trigger_error().    since PHP 4
1024    E_USER_NOTICE (integer) User-generated notice message. This is like an E_NOTICE, except it is generated in PHP code by using the PHP function trigger_error().  since PHP 4
2047    E_ALL (integer) All errors and warnings, as supported, except of level E_STRICT.    

2048    E_STRICT (integer)  Run-time notices. Enable to have PHP suggest changes to your code which will ensure the best interoperability and forward compatibility of your code.   since PHP 5

